+++
title = "Privacy Policy"
date = 2024-04-06T00:00:00Z
+++

This Privacy Policy describes Our policies and procedures on the collection, use
and disclosure of Your information when You use the Service and tells You about
Your privacy rights and how the law protects You.

## Interpretation and Definitions

### Interpretation

The words of which the initial letter is capitalized have meanings defined under the following conditions. The following definitions shall have the same meaning regardless of whether they appear in singular or in plural.

### Definitions

For the purposes of this Privacy Policy:

* __Account__ means a unique account created for You to access our Service or parts of our Service.

* __Affiliate__ means an entity that controls, is controlled by or is under common control with a party, where "control" means ownership of 50% or more of the shares, equity interest or other securities entitled to vote for election of directors or other managing authority.

* __Entity__ (referred to as either "I", "Me", "My", "Our", "Us" in this Agreement) refers to Anand Bose.

* __Cookies__ are small files that are placed on Your computer, mobile device or any other device by a website, containing the details of Your browsing history on that website among its many uses.

* __Country__ refers to: Kerala,  India

* __Device__ means any device that can access the Service such as a computer, a cellphone or a digital tablet.

* __Personal Data__ is any information that relates to an identified or identifiable individual.

* __Service__ refers to the Website.

* __Service Provider__ means any natural or legal person who processes the data on behalf of the Entity. It refers to third-party companies or individuals employed by the Entity to facilitate the Service, to provide the Service on behalf of the Entity, to perform services related to the Service or to assist the Entity in analyzing how the Service is used.

* __Usage Data__ refers to data collected automatically, either generated by the use of the Service or from the Service infrastructure itself (for example, the duration of a page visit).

* __Website__ refers to Anand&#39;s Blog, accessible from [https://anandbose.dev](https://anandbose.dev)

* __You__ means the individual accessing or using the Service, or the Entity, or other legal entity on behalf of which such individual is accessing or using the Service, as applicable.

I Anand Bose hereby declare no Personal Data, Usage Data or Device identifiers
from the visitors of the Website is collected, processed or shared with third 
parties on the behalf of Me. Your personal data is none of My business. The
source code used to build this website is open and available at
[github.com/anandbosedev/anandbosedev.github.io](https://github.com/anandbosedev/anandbosedev.github.io).

However, kindly note Our Service Provider [GitHub Pages by GitHub Inc](https://docs.github.com/en/pages) 
may collect data and it solely belongs to [GitHub Inc](https://github.com) under their privacy policy. 
Kindly refer to the following links:

* [GitHub General Privacy Statement](https://docs.github.com/en/site-policy/privacy-policies/github-general-privacy-statement)
* [GitHub Pages Data Collection](https://docs.github.com/en/pages/getting-started-with-github-pages/about-github-pages#data-collection)

## Links to Other Websites

Our Service may contain links to other websites that are not operated by Us. If You click on a third party link, You will be directed to that third party's site. We strongly advise You to review the Privacy Policy of every site You visit.

We have no control over and assume no responsibility for the content, privacy policies or practices of any third party sites or services.

## Changes to this Privacy Policy

We may update Our Privacy Policy from time to time. We will notify You of any changes by posting the new Privacy Policy on this page.

You are advised to review this Privacy Policy periodically for any changes. Changes to this Privacy Policy are effective when they are posted on this page.

## Contact Us

If you have any questions about this Privacy Policy, You can contact us:


- By email: anandbose16@gmail.com