---
layout: post
title: Average Consumers Vs Content Creators - Some Thoughts
tags: ['Thoughts']
---

When I watch YouTube reviews, I am overwhelmed that the content creators are spending much money and contributing too much to e-waste statistics. (Sorry if I hurt you with the aforementioned statement, I have no subtle way to put this). Suppose I am an "average consumer" wishing to buy iPhone 15 Pro. The phrase "average consumer" more refers to a person who works during weekdays, paid with average salary in a society, runs the family expenses, makes savings for the future, may or may not explore tech stuffs on the web during free time.  Disclaimer: The phrase "average consumer" applies to myself as well.

For instance, consider I am an "average consumer" with mediocre tech knowledge, using an iPhone 8 for 6 years and I am about to start a journey to find my next mobile device. The reasons I am considering to switch are the decreased battery life, reduced performance and I wish to have a faster connectivity with 5G as well. I wish to buy iPhone 15 Pro and I want to use it for at least next 5 years. Why I haven't switched to iPhone X when they are introduced to the market? At that moment, I didn't feel my iPhone 8 is obsolete. It just works with decent performance. Also throwing money for upgrade to iPhone X is not good for my financial plans at that time.

So yes, I am in my mind about switching to iPhone 15 Pro, because of the design, camera, connectivity, so and so. The videos from Apple is that impressive. And I check YouTube for their real-life reviews. I can see several dedicated tech channels that boasts about iPhone 15 Pro. Some reviews says iPhone 15 series is much better than Samsung S23 series. Some reviews says the converse. Some reviews rants iPhone 15 Pro doesn't have 100x zoom and a stylus, or Androids adopted USB-C years ago.

I can see most of them are exaggerations, some of them are rants. Some videos are just nice, but they are not talking about some major downsides like 60Hz display in iPhone 15 (not Pro models). The 60Hz display is not a downside, but considering the price point, it is clearly a downside. Some reviewers rants about the base storage is 128GB is low, but there are people who are absolutely fine with that.  Now a days I am feeling more like that **the content creators in YouTube are being heavily controlled by the equipment vendors to exaggerate their devices' ratings, or to say bad about other company's devices, or just prefer not to say about the downsides of their particular device.** This is just not about a company, this is all about the most of companies.

This is not just limited to the reviewers, but the companies as well. You can see the Apple's marketing quotes like "the best ever iPhone", or the "iPhone is secure", still you can see the specs of iPhone 15 was compared with iPhone 12 from 2020. This is because they cannot get significantly sized numbers from iPhone 13 and 14 to nicely display in their website. That means, Apple is indirectly saying "you might not need to upgrade to iPhone 15 if you are using iPhone 13 or iPhone 14". Regarding the security, Apple introduced a "Lockdown mode" in the iPhone settings, which disables some features that are prone to cyber attack. Because Apple knows some components are not that secure, or might introduce security vulnerabilities. That means, Apple is indirectly saying "the iPhone is not that secure as you think, or like we say all times". The AppleCare+ plans indirectly says "our maintenance costs are too high, so if you don't want to lose much money for uncertain situations of damages, extend your warranty!". This fact is not just limited for Apple, but several companies do.

From now, I am starting to think seriously. May be I looks some websites like GSMArena to get the specifications as exact numbers, the number of pixels in the display, RAM, CPU clock speed, storage bus speed and everything. Since the price range is a kind of big, so I might look for economic alternatives like Samsung S23 Ultra, S23+ and so on. May be I change my mind to buy Samsung phone because their products are much economic than iPhone, but still as good as iPhone or at least a good fit for me. May be I just arrived to the end of the exploration / comparison / decision making journey, and buys a particular phone, and feels good that I made a wiser decision. This is my understanding of a typical journey from an "average consumer". 

The content creators journey might be entirely different than an average consumer's journey of buying phones. When Apple announced iPhone 15, or Samsung announced S23 series, they were rushing, they were bombarding the marketing/press portal's mailboxes for early access of the devices. Some of the creators succeeds in this point and gets early access. Some of them fails, so they want to be the first to by the devices when it becomes generally available in the market. They might be waiting in front of the store on the early morning day 1 of the sale. Yes, they are in a heavy rush because they are in a tight competition to be the first to review the device. Until another big company release their next iteration of product lines, they keeps making videos for the every aspects of the device, say about cameras, photos, videos, review after 1 week, 1 month, 3 months, 6 months, 1 year and so on.

Most of the reviewers buys the maxed-out versions of the product lines in a couple of boxes, makes a video that I bought this much of devices and unboxes it, nicely acts about how much they are excited or wondered about the things they bought. Some reviewers are too much excited about the USB-C in iPhone, as they are seeing USB-C for the first time ever in their life. They keeps talking, talking and talking often as YouTube and vendors pours piles money in their wallets. When the hype is over, some reviewers puts their devices for "give-away" and give a push about it in the social medias, so more and more people follows them and subscribes to their channel. **More engagement = more money (than selling the device for a lower price).** Some reviewers don't even want that niche money (when compared to their income from YouTube, marketing promotions and other businesses), so they simply keeps them in their wardrobe. This is more like harvesting for a winter season in which they runs out of content creation ideas, so they picks a random device from the wardrobe, wipes the dust, and do a video of it. Some devices eventually becomes dead at that time, so they merely throws it away as their contribution to the global e-waste statistics. 

The lifecycle of a device from a reviewer can be more like: *a good phone -- once reviewed -- not used thereafter -- collected dust -- long dead in wardrobe -- (optionally announce a funeral, make a sad video of it and post it in YouTube) -- trash it.* Sometimes they do insane things like buying an unopened box of vintage phone from an auction conducted by a random retailer for a hefty price, makes a dumb video of it (with the term "dumb video" I mean they are telling like the product was really good, without making the viewers to feel like their current products are not innovative like the vintage ones) and follows the same lifecycle because it is not at all or barely usable with the current standards of the carrier, service provider or the vendor.

I can see some of the consumers wants to follow the journey of the content creators, endangering their financial stability. When some reviews a new device, they might occasionally says like "I ditched my iPhone 14 Pro Max for 15 Pro Max" or in video or in a social media post, even if the iPhone 14 Pro Max is a very amazing product. They are not properly understanding the fact that the upgrade is worthless. If they are upgrading to iPhone 15 Pro Max for fame or pride, they might need to explicitly show-off the USB-C port, as the iPhone 14 Pro Max and 15 Pro Max are really hard to identify between each other. Otherwise, the changes are less comparable, and throwing out money for the lesser comparable numbers are not really worth that much.

It is clarifying that **YouTubers puts their channel first, but the average consumers puts reliability first.** You need to understand the dynamicity and volatility of the market. When one company comes with the product and gathers the crown, the reviewers will encircle them for content and boosting their revenue. When another company comes with groundbreaking products and snatches the crown, the reviewers will move to them. It can be seen that the **reviewers in YouTube blames a company on one point of time, but they are promoting the same company on another point of time** When you watch a video, it is more like you are buying a product. You might be paying for it as "premium" fees or letting them earn by making you watch an advertisement. Every product has their upsides or downsides, or hidden weaknesses, so as YouTube reviews. Most reviewers never say a word about the maintenance costs. For example, if you buy an iPhone, you may have to pay higher price if you break the display, camera or casing, or the battery replacement. May be the reviewers are getting paid from vendors for being dumb about this. 

My humble suggestion: You can watch a gazillion videos of reviews about a device if you wish to buy. You can read more reviews too. But don't be blind or get blindfolded by these promotional contents. Don't rush for pre-bookings even if you are offered with discounts for pre-booking. After going through the online materials, do your own math, do your own analysis of how it fits to your requirement, the level of easiness for maintenance, and how it holds with your financials. 